EP2015CN263525
According to Definitions 1 and 2, SOTS belongs to the
TTP-based approach [6], with the broker acting as the TTP.
According to Definition 3, SOTS is also an expanded trust
evaluation approach [12], beyond traditional trust schemes
that always focus on one-sided trust factors of service
resources. The expanded trust model incorporates security,
reliability, and availability factors into a trust vector. Thus,
the new trust scheme will contain data that can be imported
from existing models (that is, security, reliability, availability)
to form a comprehensive trust model for a multiple
cloud environment.
3.2 Trust-Aware Brokering System Architecture
Fig. 2 shows a schematic of our architecture. Conceptually,
the proposed middleware architecture consists of a number
of core modules, including the trusted resource matchmaking
and distributing module, the adaptive trust evaluation
module, the agent-based service operator acquisition module,
and the resource management module, among others.
Adaptive trust evaluation module. This module is the core
of the trust-aware cloud computing system, and is the major
focus of this paper. Using this module, the broker can
dynamically sort high-performance resources by analyzing
the historic resource information in terms of providing
highly trusted resources.


The underlying assumption of this TTP-based approach
is that users must trust the third-party broker they decide to
consult. In actual cases, these brokering systems are often
managed by larger ISPs with good reputation, so the services
from these ISPs should have a higher dependability.
We assume that all resources have unique identities, such
as the IP address, and that each cloud manager (site) can
register its resources through these unique identities. This
paper mainly focuses on the trust management system of
server sides; thus, we also assume that each cloud site has a
security mechanism to resist attacks from malicious users
Trusted resource matchmaking and distributing module. In
general, each cloud manager registers its service resources
through the cloud broker. The service user negotiates with
the service broker on the service-level agreement (SLA)
details [25]; they eventually prepare an SLA contract.
According to this contract, the broker selects, and then
presents highly trusted resources to users from the trusted
resource pool.
Agent publish and service operator acquisition module. This
module is used to monitor the usage of allocated resources
in order to guarantee the SLA with the user. In interaction,
the module monitors the resource operators and is responsible
for getting run-time service operators. Another task of
the module is to publish automatically the monitoring
agents (MA) in a remote site when a computing task is
assigned to the site.
Resource register module. It manages and indexes all the
resources available from multiple cloud providers, and
obtains information from each particular cloud resource,
acting as pricing interface for users, and updating the database
when new information is available.
3.3 Statistics-Based Service Operator Measurement
When matchmaking a resource for users, the cloud broker
must first consider whether the resource has the required
capabilities (for example, CPU frequency, memory size, and
hard disk capacity), and second, whether it is likely to complete
the task successfully [19]. The first of these considerations
can be evaluated by the resource’s availability, which
can determine whether a resource has the required capability
or not. The second consideration mainly focuses on the
reliability and security of the resource, which can be evaluated
by the resource’s service operators. Reliability refers to
the probability of service for a given duration, and we use
six operators to reflect this factor. The most basic needs of
security pertain to the absence of unauthorized access to a
system. We use the security levels of a service site to
Fig. 1. Conceptual model.
Fig. 2. A trust broker for multi-cloud environments.